# Software-Engineering-Punch-Clock
A punch clock for a company
## Background:
The name of this project is Software Engineering Punch clock. This Project was designed as the final project in Software Engineering I. Software Engineering I is a class dedicated to the study and practice of programming in a team and working on a common project. This project was worked on using Scrum, an agile methodology. This class was instructed by Jay Snellen, an instructor at Jacksonville State University. This project served as a final project/grade for the course. Over the course of the work done for this project, a tornado stuck the Jacksonville State campus and many students on other teams had to leave because their dorms were damaged. Because of this, some people were added to our team. I served as Scrummaster which means I was responsible for making sure the Scrum process was upheld.
## Installation:
This project is programmed in the Java programming language. Because of this, in order to use this program, you must have the proper Java facilities installed. To install, click the download button and save the file to a location in your hard drive. After this, either use an IDE compatible with Java or use the command prompt to navigate to the program and start it.
## Design:
This project is the software for a company punch clock. The user should be able to punch in and out. Lunch breaks are incorporated. One simply has to punch out and back in after the lunch break is over. The clock is also set up so as to minimize overtime discourage clocking in early and late to get extra hours. The clock will alter the time that you sign in by 15 minutes if you clock in early or clock out late. The program uses a mysql database of time stamps to initiate punches. This database can easily be replaced in the TASDatabase file. There are 6 classes in this project including the main file. These classes include a badge class for identifying employees, a punch class for signing the employees in, a TASLogic class for implementing the logic and calculations for the clock, and a shift class for shifting clock-ins and clock-outs based on the times they were performed. Test classes should already be implemented into the code.
## Acknowledgments:
While working on this project, I was Scrummaster for my team. My team of programmers consisted of Josh Luce, Eli Mulonda, Ethan Rogers, Michael Burt, Caden Garrett and deezworld2. 

